---
title: "Carnitas"
layout: post
date: 2016-05-10
#image: /assets/images/markdown.jpg
headerImage: false
tag:
- recipe
- dinner
- pork
star: false
category: blog
author: varunmehta
description: Dinner ideas, Carnitas
---


## Ingredients 

### Dry Marinade 
- 1 teaspoon garlic powder 
- 1 teaspoon dried oregano 
- 1 teaspoon salt 
- 1 teaspoon dry ground Chipotle Peppers or Red Chilli Powder
- 1 tablespoon ground cumin
- 1/2 teaspoon freshly cracked black pepper 

### Wet Marinade
- 6 cloves garlic, minced
- 1/2 red onion sliced
- 1/2 cup fresh orange juice
- 1/4 cup fresh lime juice
- 1/2 a Lime's worth of zest

## Directions

- In a mixing bowl, whisk together the dry ingredients until combined. Set aside until ready to use
- Dry rub the pork shoulder (Boston Butt) all around in the dry rub, not all will be used, some will be left behind (more on this later)
- Leave the dry rub pork for 30 minutes to 2 hours for it to break the outer layer.
- Mix the left over dry ingredients with the orange juice, lime juice and zest.
- Set the Instant Pot to sauté settings, add a little bit of oil and sear all sides of the pork till light brown, be careful not to burn the spices. 
- Repeat till all sides are nicely seared and browned on all sides. 
- Set the pork aside on a clean plate, take the wet marinade and rest of the items (onions + garlic) and deglaze the bottom of the instant pot of all the browned meat.  
- Add the pork back and set the IP to 50 minutes on meat, and forget it for 2 hours till the pressure releases naturally.
- Remove the lid of the Instant Pot.  Shred the pork with two forks. Let it rest

### Optional Steps to make it crispy (or skip to Last Step)
- Set Oven broiler to high heat
- Then transfer it with a slotted spoon to a large baking sheet.  Spoon about a third of the leftover juices evenly on top of the pork and toss to combine.  
- Broil for 4-5 minutes, or until the edges of the pork begin browning and crisping up. Remove the baking sheet from the oven, then half of the remaining juices from the Instant Pot evenly over the pork and toss to combine.  
- Broil for an additional 5 minutes to get the meat even more crispy. Remove baking sheet from the oven, then ladle the remaining juices over the pork, and toss to combine.

### Last Step
- Sprinkle with chopped fresh cilantro, then serve warm in tacos, burritos, salads, or whatever sounds good to you!