---
title: "Restore Old Archives"
layout: post
date: 2025-11-15
image: https://varunmehta.github.io/spike-prime-git/images/icon128.png
headerImage: true
tag:
- github
- authentication
- technical
- restore
- projects 
star: true
hidden: false
category: blog
author: varunmehta
description: Restore old websites using Claude Code
---
# 1999-2003 Web Development Archive Restored! 

This is an archive of all my web development antics and experiments with digital art from 1999-2003. A time when the web was simple and I was more into HTML was learning the ropes of ASP and Java. Even though I have lost all the original source code, I was able to get the final outputs. It was an interesting journey trying to retrieve the information from my old tripod.com account. Some of the digital art images seem to have been corrupted, with no way to retrieve them.

Somewhere around 2000-2001, if you searched "varun mehta" or "varun info" I would be in the top 3 results on Google.

> ## Technical Notes
>
>All Flash content on these pages has been restored using [Ruffle](https://ruffle.rs/), an open-source Flash Player emulator written in Rust. This allows the Flash animations and interactive content to work in modern browsers without the need for the deprecated Adobe Flash Player plugin.
>
>The sites are preserved as close to their original state as possible, maintaining the design aesthetic and functionality of the early 2000s web.
>
>*Archive restored and made accessible in 2025*


---

## Client Projects

- [ACPCE](flash/acpce/index.htm){:target="_blank"} - A.C.Patil College of Engineering
- [Match Fixing Game](flash/matchfixing/index.htm){:target="_blank"} - Online flash protest against cricket matchfixing
- [Optivity](flash/optivity/main.htm){:target="_blank"} - Corporate website
- [Whatman](flash/whatman/index.html){:target="_blank"} - Fun Project website

### MME

My dad's side-gig along with his job.

- [MME Home](mme/index.htm){:target="_blank"}
- [About](mme/about.htm){:target="_blank"}
- [Products](mme/products.htm){:target="_blank"}
- [Dealers](mme/dealers.htm){:target="_blank"}
- [Contact](mme/contact.htm){:target="_blank"}


### Flash Experiments

- [Cards](flash/cards/UltraSonicCard.html){:target="_blank"}
- [Advertisements](flash/ads/Varun.html){:target="_blank"}


---
## Digital Art

I was a big fan of CGI (computer generated imagery) back in school, and was planning to pursue [MDes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Master_of_Design), and also apply for Pratt. These were an effort to build a portfolio. A lot of the art you see here was built on either Photoshop, Blender or 3D Studio Max.

- [View Digital Art Portfolio](digital_art/index.htm){:target="_blank"}

---

## Personal Websites

### VarunInfo

This was my first personal website, where I highlighted my portfolio and uploaded a crude resume. Went through multiple iterations.

- [VarunInfo Ver 1](varuninfo/ver1/index.htm){:target="_blank"} - First iteration
- [VarunInfo Ver 2](varuninfo/ver2/index.htm){:target="_blank"} - Second iteration
- [VarunInfo Ver 3](varuninfo/ver3/index.htm){:target="_blank"} - Third iteration
- [VarunInfo Ver 4](varuninfo/ver4/index.htm){:target="_blank"} - Fourth iteration (with Flash animations)
- [VarunInfo Ver 5](varuninfo/ver5/index.htm){:target="_blank"} - Fifth iteration
- [VarunInfo Ver 6](varuninfo/ver6/index.htm){:target="_blank"} - Sixth iteration
- [VarunInfo Ver 7](varuninfo/ver7/index.htm){:target="_blank"} - Final iteration


### VarunMehta

Along the way somewhere I started building another portfolio with my complete name.

- [VarunMehta Ver 1](varunmehta/ver1/index.htm){:target="_blank"} - First iteration
- [VarunMehta Ver 2](varunmehta/ver2/index.htm){:target="_blank"} - Second iteration (Flash-based)
- [VarunMehta Ver 3](varunmehta/ver3/index.htm){:target="_blank"} - Third iteration (Flash-based)
- [Flash Portfolio](flash/varunmehta/index.htm){:target="_blank"} - Standalone Flash portfolio

---

## Software & Utilities

Software projects and presentations from my engineering days.

- [Softwares](softwares/index.htm){:target="_blank"}

---
